Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are gonna be seeing things from the player's point of view.
We will be getting hold of the players viewport the location and rotation of the camera, essentially,
so that when we hit the trigger button, we can draw a debug camera.
These little red guys here, these little red boxy cameras that show us where that viewport is.
And we can confirm that.
We can then use that later on.
For ray tracing for the gun, let's dive in and see all of that in action.
Let me start this lecture with a question.
So if you are aiming through your viewport like this and you're trying to line up the center of your
screen with that D on D command center or zero command center, whatever that's meant to be.
And I aim.
What would I aim to?
What would I expect to hit.
You might say, well I'd expect it to hit that zero sum.
That seems like the obvious answer.
Well, that's not necessarily what you are going to hit.
Depending on how you do things, how you do your recasting.
So let's have a look at the strategies we have for recasting the most obvious, as you say.
Well, we're firing out the gun.
So we're going to recast down the barrel the gun.
Oh, by the way, this setup, which is very crude, is basically a third person set up.
We've got a camera back here.
We've got the character, we've got the gun.
And he's trying to shoot another Target character over here.
So.
Well, first of all, we recast out the gun like that Pule.
Maybe it misses because our camera is not pointing where the gun is pointing.
Not necessarily.
Even though they might be pointing in the same direction, they're slightly offset from each other.
So they won't necessarily hit the same things.
Instead, you might choose that you want to recast from the camera.
That means that whatever the camera is looking at is going to be the thing that is hit.
And that generally feels more natural in third person games.
When you're in first person games, things get a little bit closer because often you're very close to
the barrel.
But even in first person games, this rule tends to be the case.
You don't want to be moving around where the aiming point is on the screen.
You typically have a little piece of UI that overlays here in the middle of your screen, and that's
where you're going to aim down.
And so that's why we tend to do our casting with ray casted weapons down this viewport.
Now, Fortuny, there's a way for us to get this viewport and we actually do it from the controller.
We get the controllers viewport.
So that requires us to go to the character, find the character's controller and then find its viewport
location and rotation.
And what we're gonna do in this lecture is try and visualize and confirm that that viewport location
rotation is what we would expect.
We're going to do that by drawing some debug helpers.
Now, the debug helpers are in a header file and the header files name is debug.
Help us, funnily enough, I believe or draw, draw, dybbuk help.
That's one.
And if we're gonna have a look at this one after 12 to go navigate to a header file, if you've already
got it in your includes, we are going to look for a one called camera draw debug camera.
And this draws something that looks a little bit like my diagram here, a little bit of a triangle or
a foster home that we can use.
So what's it going to take in?
It's going to take in the world.
A location of that camera.
A rotation for said camera.
So location, rotation, field of view will make it will set that property to a default like 90 degrees.
There's a scale as a color default.
These are all defaulted.
So we can just use that defaults.
So let's try and draw a debug camera down here in my gun and we'll put it in the.
Pull the trigger method, because that's why we're doing our work.
It needs first of all, what was it?
It was a U world.
So we get our world.
We need to draw into the next thing would be a location.
Let's just get actor a location for the time being and do a get act rotation as well.
And then what was the final thing that we needed was a field of view.
Let's just go for a 90 degree field of view, which is just a random thing there.
And we can go ahead and compile and see whether this shows up.
And then let's hit play and hit the.
Trigger button.
I'm not seeing anything here.
Let's do an F eight and see if we can get closer.
Still not showing any kind of camera in here.
I'm wondering if it's really, really small.
So one of the other options here is that we might want to have persistent lines.
And so that means we need to specify everything up to it in C++ so we can set at scale to one.
We could even increase it maybe to a scale of two just in case it's the size.
That's a problem.
We can choose a color that's more visible, maybe red.
So F color, Kolon, Kolon, red.
And then we can try having persistent lines be true.
And try that one on for size.
So compiling again.
And jumping into play and there we go, we hit.
The trigger and you can see that it shows up a little camera box here where we hit Trigger and it's
rotation and location are set by the guns, location and rotation.
So now we want to try and get the viewport instead.
So, as I've already said, this is going to be on our controller.
So let's look at Controller Dot H.
Again, we want the one in the game framework and we're going to look for viewport in here.
Beg your pardon?
Actually, viewpoint is the word we're looking for.
And there's a few here get actor eyes, a viewpoint that would be looking through the actor's eyes.
But we actually want the get play a viewpoint which for an A.I. controller will use their eyes.
But for a player will use the player's camera.
So that's what we want.
We want to get play a viewpoint.
But first, what we have to get hold of that controller in the first place.
And the way to do that is, first of all, we need to get our owner.
Remember that when we had our shooter character, S.P. Open and we go down to or go up to our begin
play, you can see we're setting the guns owner to be the character.
That means that in the gun we can go the other way.
We can say get owner, and that's going to get us the shooter character.
Now, it's not going to know that it's a shoot cat.
All it knows is there is an actor.
So we're gonna have to do a cast here.
So we do a cast to the A shoot her character.
And in fact, we don't even need to know anything as much as the fact that it's a shooter character.
It's sufficient to know that it is a pawn and any pawn can then possess this gun, even if it's not
a shooter character.
So try and be as nonspecific as possible.
Why does it need to be a pawn, though?
It needs to be a pawn because we need to get a controller and only pawns can be possessed by controllers.
So let's put this in.
A variable is going to be a porn star and then owner porn is gonna be the name of the variable.
Then we need to check that this is not.
No.
And I'm just going to do this with a one liner that says if it is now, we return early from our pull
trigger so that we don't have any risk of trying to cool anything with a null pointer.
So then we can do a porn owner, get controller, and we want to save that in to the A controller star.
And this can be the owner controller.
Like so and again, we want to just check that this isn't null because we're going to be calling a method
on that and we can't call methods on null pointers.
It makes unreal, unhappy and crash.
So this is where we can now do our owner controller.
And we should be able to cool to that get play a viewpoint.
So here comes the challenge for you to set that location and rotation using that new function.
You can see the signature for it again.
We'll go to Controller Dot H.
And had a file and look at that.
Get player viewpoint.
Try and see if from this signature you can work out how to use it to get that location and rotation
that we want to pass into our draw debug helper.
And so you're going to remember that this is using out parameters.
So revising out parameters, draw the debug camera using that snippet that we've just written and test
it in the viewport.
Go and click the trigger button a few times in different locations and see where that camera ends up
showing.
Pause video and have a go.
Kay, welcome back.
So get PLI viewpoint.
I'm gonna copy the name of the method and bring it over here because it's an out parameter.
I will need to declare first the variables that I want those values to go into.
Gone f vector location.
We have got an F A rotator rotation.
And we want to pass those in as the arguments.
Let me just fix up my indentation there a little bit and we're going to pass in the location, the rotation.
And we know that because it's just been declared here when reading this, we can guess that these are
now our parameters, even though there isn't any syntax helpfulness from C++ on that regard.
And then we can pass this location instead of the act to location.
And we can pass this rotation instead of the active rotation into ad draw, debug camera.
And we can go ahead and build that, compile and try it out in the editor.
Well, it looks like the compile is complete.
Let's go and play.
And when I hit Trigger, you could see a camera appearing right over my viewpoint.
That's a good sign.
I step back a little bit.
You can see.
There you go.
We've got these cameras that are pointing in exactly the right direction from where I was just looking.
So you can just imagine how we're going to be able to shoot a ray out of that camera down the end of
the camera and try and hit something over there that I was looking at at the time.
And that's what we're going to be doing in the next lecture.
See you there.